---
post: aquatic-spinosaurus-the-authors-responsd9182014
author: "Sseth"
date: 2014-09-19T16:37:20Z
approved: true
source: disqus
---
<p>First off I would like to thank the authors for finally bringing to the public forefront the most incredible of all dinosaurs, Spinosaurus.  I would also like to share my own opinion, which is based on firsthand experience.</p><p>Based on an extensive working knowledge of the Kem Kem formation and Spinosaurus, I am going to agree that this composite "Spiosaurus" can not be accurate as described.  I have in my lab a Spinosaurus Femur that is nearly 2.5 feet longer than the one that supposedly came from this huge dinosaur.  If their reconstruction is accurate, based on my bone,  you would be looking a dinosaur nearly 2 times larger than their projected size.  I also have a full sacrum and a large number of vertebrae that would suggest thei their findings are not accurate, not to mention the fact that in their reconstruction, the all of the vertebrae, with the exception of the last few caudal verts are much larger in diameter than the femur, and the tiny Tib and Fib would be crushed by the immense weight of the animal, even in the water given the reduced factor given by the water, that the authors are proposing.</p><p>Also, being very familiar with Kem Kem, Their story does not add up.  Because of the way the deposits there form, in all my years, and those of nealy every individual I work with in Morocco, you never find more than a few associated bones.  This sediment has been broken up and redeposited many times over the millions of years it has been in existence.  This is not to say you will not have bones from many individuals ane even various species that end up together because of the movement of water and fluid soil, but I do not believe that they can be considered part of any one individual.  I have uncovered associated bones, but in many cases they do not even come from the same species.  Unless they were full articulated, one cannot suppose that they are from a single individual.  (I yield up Brontosaurus as an example.  Bones in proximity did not play out in that case either)  Also, to use any assertion that bone or matrix color can be used to determine that bones have come from the same location in Kem Kem is not a safe one.  I have bones and teeth from miles apart that look identical, including the matrix they were found in, and others that were found within inches that look nothing alike.</p><p>This is not to say I disagree with everything in the article.  There are some things I agree with and the truth may lie somewhere other than any of our theories.  I respect the work the authors have done and can honestly say that I share their love of this great spined lizzard.  It too helped inspire my passion for dinosaurs and has been a lifelong passion of mine.</p><p>  I would also add that in my many years of research I also believe that there were wither two distinct species of Spinosaurus, or a large amount of sexual dimorphism.  This is based on both teeth and bone comparison.  Some day soon My group will be donating a collection to a local university and publishing a piece on our findings, as well as several dinosaurs from the Phosphates in Morocco.</p><p>Seth</p>
