---
post: aquatic-spinosaurus-the-authors-responsd9182014
author: "Anonymous"
date: 2014-09-19T14:53:26Z
approved: true
source: disqus
---
<p>There seems to be a lot of ad hominem remarks and personal jabs in this response.</p><p>"We will detail our methods in upcoming papers."</p><p>Isn't detailing the methods you used to get the results an important part of any scientific paper? If space was an issue you could always have posted it as supplementary information.</p><p> "In summary we have evidence for one skeleton, one individual, and one ontogenetic stage."</p><p>I don't think anyone is doubting that the neotype represents a single individual. However, the reconstruction is made from several individuals, including some that may not necessarily belong to the same species.</p><p>"We have been very transparent about our approach and have presented strong evidence in favor of our interpretations. The skull of Spinosaurus has "fish eating" written all over it, one of the best matches for the bone compactness profile is a penguin, and we have paddle like feet and a "river of giants" full of car sized coelacanths, giant lungfish, sawfish and many other aquatic forms."</p><p>From what I can tell, Scott isn't . All I have seen him say is that the hind limbs are probably not as short as indicated in the reconstruction. Indeed, as he said...<br>"I am not advocating the wholesale rejection of their data - the new specimen certainly helps fill in some osteological gaps, and the taxonomic revision they undertook was desperately needed. Likewise, the bone density data (and previously published isotope work) make a strong case for Spinosaurus eating fish and spending most of its time in and around the water."</p><p>"We are not saying that our reconstruction is 100% perfect – of course it isn’t, and I don't think this claim has been made by one of the authors - but paleontologists and paleoartists in particular should finally accept that there is no such thing as a "final word" in dinosaur reconstructions, weight estimates and behavioral interpretations."</p><p>Are you implying that the only reason Scott has criticized the Spinosaurus reconstruction in your paper is because he is somehow wedded to the idea of Spinosaurus as a terrestrial super-predator?</p><p>"One other thing that many people seem to have missed is that Stromer's "Spinosaurus B", almost certainly associated material (see Stromer's account), shows the same axial/appendicular proportions. Several elements of Spinosaurus B overlap with our material – which in turn overlaps with the holotype."</p><p>This wasn't clear in the reconstruction at all. Indeed, the figure from the paper made it seem like the elements of the hind limb were only known from the subadult neotype.</p><p>" It was a rough draft, but people now seem to be attempting to get data from it..."</p><p>If the photos were only supposed to be a "rough draft", why did you use them in the description of your specimen?</p><p>"For an independent reconstruction effort, also see the skeletal reconstruction by Marco Auditore (on the Theropoda blog);<br>Marco is part of our team and, using the same data set, independently obtained a reconstruction that matches the proportions of the digital skeleton."</p><p>If Marco Auditore is part of your team and using the same data (you mean measurements, not specimens, right?) then by definition his reconstruction would not be independent.</p>
