---
post: aquatic-spinosaurus-the-authors-responsd9182014
author: "Al Simmons"
date: 2014-09-20T01:02:04Z
approved: true
source: disqus
---
<p>First off, as a layman with a life long interest in dinosaurs, I think that all of the principals in this discussion have been very forthcoming and have behaved above board during the debate started by Scott's analysis.  This debate is a useful and necessary part  of every major find and is, as Scott has alluded, a key part of getting as close to the truth as we can, given the evidence before us.</p><p>Standing on the outside looking in, I have a few observations to make that I hope that Nizar and the other gentlemen involved in this find and its analysis will consider:</p><p>1.  The new evidence establishes, I think without question, that we are dealing with an animal that was indeed "semi-aquatic", primarily piscivorous, and adapted to a life in the water.  The bone density analysis, the unique (for a theropod) feet suggesting paddling as a way of locomotion (and the resulting equally likely webbing of the feet) all seem pretty sound to me and, best of all "make sense" in light of the other attributes of this weird, wonderful animal.</p><p>2.  Scott has hit the nail on the head in, I believe, acknowledging most or all of these points, as well as clearly stating that there is no doubt that Spinosaurus did have a smaller pelvic/leg size ratio than any known theropod, and that this fact appears to be directly related to its unique lifestyle.</p><p>So, here is my message to Nizar and the rest of the authors here:</p><p>1.  Debate is good;  the massive debate that has descended here is in a way acknowledgement of the massiveness of the find and the resulting shift in the analysis of the animal - that is all to the good;</p><p>2.  None of the debates that I have read seems to seriously question the most significant fact that your discovery and analysis has now established - the unique nature of the niche/lifestyle of this animal (see above), and that is also good because while there is a lot of talk regarding the leg/hip/size/walking on land ability, do not allow that to obscure the fact that just about everyone now must acknowledge the uniqueness of his animal.</p><p>Whether it could walk on two legs as the revised skeletal reconstruction done by Scott indicates it could do, or not, it was EITHER WAY CLEARLY a SEMI_AQUATIC PISCIVORE.  A staggering finding!  Monumental in dino-annals.</p><p>So, gentlemen, you have already "hit a homerun" that cannot be taken away.  This business about the size of the hips/legs is - dare I say - minutiae compared to the real import of your discoveries.</p><p>Lets not allow the debate regarding this to obscure the unchallengeable and truly revolutionary aspect of the discovery.</p><p>In closing, I would kindly implore Nizar and his fellow discoverers, to go over all of your data with a fine-toothed comb, and to take as seriously as possible the suggestions regarding the scaling of parts of the skeleton made by Scott and other paleontologists.</p><p>Yes, these folks have not actually seen or studied the fossils the way that you have, but sometimes the simplest things can be missed because of being "too close" to the subject, and a pair of fresh eyes from the outside can discern a detail here and there that may have been overlooked.</p><p>Having said that, I await with great interest further commentary and analysis from Scott, as well as from Nizar and the rest of the discoverers of this critter.</p><p>The way I see it, as there is no disagreement here regarding the truly important aspects of this find, your further mutual discussion can only serve the interest of science in a positive manner - either by helping to "tweak" the find "around the edges" to give us a more accurate portrayal of this creature, or - should Scott be convinced by your further papers - confirming the finders' initial analysis.</p><p>This ain't a "Predator/Scavenger" debate.  Everyone here is already on the same boat regarding the findings that really matter.  It ought to turn into a "WIN-WIN" scenario in the end, with the truth being more firmly established as a result of the debate.</p>
