---
post: great-skeletal-repose-of-2011
author: "Zach Armstrong"
date: 2011-07-17T06:20:50Z
approved: true
source: disqus
---
<p>Scott, considering that you have the largest body of modern skeletals of dinosaurs (besides Greg Paul) and by virtue of being the heir apparent standard skeletal illustrator, the truth is you could probably pick a skeletal pose without asking anybody and anybody else who seriously wants to restore skeletons in a standardized way would probably follow your lead (I know I would). But I digress.<br><br>Even before the GSP's cease-and-desist order I did not particularly like the "running" pose as most animals don't most of the time and some animals can't (and as Heinrich Mallison has pointed out, sometimes the Greg Paul pose violates the basic anatomy).<br><br>Because of this, I think a walking or standing pose would be best. I like your walking <em>Majungasaurus</em> as a standard for bipedal animals.<br><br>Finding a walking quadrapedal pose is a bit harder I think because ideally, in order for a skeletal to have maximum educational benefit, one should be able to see the medial and lateral aspects of the all the limbs all at once. I must admit that GSP's quadrapedal pose had this advantage.<br><br>A common walking pose that I think could be usefully adopted is illustrated in the fourth or eighth picture of an elephant walk cycle <a href="http://kalyankrishna4886.files.wordpress.com/2010/12/asian_elephant_walk_cycle_by_tursiart.jpg" rel="nofollow ugc noopener" target="_blank">here</a>. There you can see all the aspects of the limbs and has the advantage of not being too Greg Paul-like, unlike the seventh photo in that link.<br><br>To answer some of the questions you posed, I think that skeletal poses do matter. They help cross-compare taxa much the same way standardized poses in animal field guides help facilitate cross-comparing.  The best way to go about creating a pose is finding one that a large number of species could feasibly adopt without violating the anatomy and one which maximizes the views of all parts of the body. We serve with these poses amateur dinosaur enthusiasts, professional scientists who want to be able to do comparative anatomy, and artists who want to make attractive and accurate life reconstructions. Skeletal poses are, in my view, essential to disseminating scientific knowledge in the field of paleontology and making it accessible to others. As for balancing "conflicting needs", it might be difficult for some artists to visualize other realistic poses to put the animals in. I think this effect might be dampened by a large number of multi-view recontrustions for those species for which they are feasible.<br><br>Anyways, that's my initial thoughts on the subject.</p>
