---
post: hesperornithoides-faq7102019
author: "Scott Hartman"
date: 2019-07-11T21:58:36Z
approved: true
parent: hesperornithoides-faq7102019--4535175798
source: disqus
---
<p>It's not impossible, but the matrix is mostly designed for coelurosaurs. It's not really feasible to design a super-matrix that is all things to all taxa, so most likely additional work would focus on including more coelurosaur taxa, or adding new characters relevant to them. Part of the reason for including so many more basal taxa was to ensure proper outgroup sampling for likelihood-based phylogenetic methods (and, you know, to see how well a matrix designed for coelurosaurs performs with more stemward taxa...and the answer is surprisingly well).</p><p>As for Pelicanimimus - I'm not 100% convinced that an alvarezsaurid Pelicanimimus should be a shocking result, but the specimen is in need of an expanded description and that would almost certainly help resolve its position (e.g move it back to ornithomimids...if that's what it really is).</p><p>In terms of the handful of "strange" results in the phylogenetic analysis, ask yourself why they seem strange? The point we were making in the paper is that many published phylogenies reuse TWiG matrices and just adding in a handful of new taxa and/or a few more characters to test the position of a new species (and those additions are often not carried on to subsequent studies). That has the advantage of making comparisons to other papers more direct (not to mention it's a lot easier), but it also means that in many of these studies 99% of the matrix is the same. So a lot of "consensus" coelurosaur assumptions are not being independently tested each time a new phylogeny is published, but the repetition makes it seem like it is (obvious exceptions for major revisions or additions to the TWiG data set, and also for independent data sets by Cau, etc.). Having said that, we don't think most of the coelurosaur "consensus" is wrong (or at least not wrong by very much), but by adding in a lot of taxa (and a lot of character information that wasn't previously scored) we do get some less usual results - and we think it's important to publish those so others can test them in future studies. After all, if the main result of this is we get a really good description of Pelicanimimus that results in it definitively grouping back as a basal ornithomimid...well that would be just fine with me.</p>
