---
post: hesperornithoides-faq7102019
author: "Scott Hartman"
date: 2019-07-11T22:15:40Z
approved: true
parent: hesperornithoides-faq7102019--4534425585
source: disqus
---
<p>1) Good question. Maybe Lori was engaging in fairly vigorous RPR flapping, or making use of the wings to turn at while running speeds, or had a particularly vigorous mating dance, and the stabilizing of the pectoral girdle and extra muscles may have been useful in any (or all) of those scenarios.<br>2) It's possibly it simply wasn't preserved, or failing that it could have been cartilaginous. But recent work (e.g. Zheng et al, 2014) has suggested that the sternum may actually be lost in some paravian taxa, so I didn't want to be presumptuous and add it (for now).<br>3) Presumably something related to food acquisition. Maybe they were suited for catching small prey that was particularly furry or feathery?<br>4) Your guess is as good as mine, though I'd draw inspiration from wetland or semi-wetland birds that stalk prey (e.g. egrets and herons).<br>5) Keratin is generally viewed as less likely to cover the whole snout in toothed taxa. Some feathered paravians from China have fluff that continues onto much of the snout, so that's possible. The remaining portion would presumably have been skin or scaly, but there's no direct evidence at this point in time.<br>6) Possibly! Quite a few theropods (even outside of coelurosaurs) have hinges that line up between the second and (some of) the third digit, which could be linked to syndactyly. And in pennaraptorans having soft-tissue that supports and manipulates the protowing feathers might be seen as increasing the odds of encasing digits II and III at least in part. Hopefully more paravians with soft-tissue outlines like Anchiornis will help answer this question in the future.<br>7) The braincase is a bit squished so it's hard to say right now. Given its phylogenetic position it was likely to have been in the upper range for Mesozoic dinosaurs, but there's still a wide range of plausible EQs it could fall into.</p>
