---
post: mass-estimates-north-vs-south-redux772013
author: "Ali Afroz"
date: 2013-07-30T14:27:26Z
approved: true
source: disqus
---
<p>Hello M                R Heartman, your post is wonderful, but I do have<br>some questions regarding it. Question number1: why is your giganotosaurus so  light? While no volumetric analysis<br>has tried to estimate the mass of gig, Bates et al (2009) used laser scanning and 3D modelling to estimate acrocanthosaurus at between 5750 and 7250 KG.<br>Given this I’d expect gig to be a lot havier with the holotype approaching 8 tons. Question number2: (this one’s about spinosaurus) what length did you use for the mandibal fragment of the holotype, Stromer says that it was 75 CM long.<br>However since he italicised it the first time he mentioned it in his paper people read the 7 as a 9. I read on an archived Wikipedia thread that you gave a snout length of 95 CM based on this. Since you later made the mandibal fragment shorter by about 6 percent it should be in the 89-90 CM range which is further corroborated by your length estimate of 15.6M for the Dal Sasso specimen. Correcting this error I get a length estimate of around 18.5M for the Dal Sasso specimen. Also I have read that you gave your spino only 14 dorsels and only 9 servicals, but the theropod database says that suchomimus had 16 dorsals and 10 servicals. Here is my estimate for the holotype: assuming that the length of the first sacrul is equal to the average length of the sacruls and the length of all the vertebra not preserved by beryenyx is equal to the averaged length of those vertebra directly anterior and posterior to it (definitely a departure from reality but the difference is minimal), that Cau’s<br>clame that the 10th dorsal sentrum length of the holotype is 50 percent longer then that of beryenyx (he rounds a lot so for all I know it could be over 60 percent), that sentrum length is directly proportional to vertebral length and  giving it a 1.25M scull I get a length of 7.5M from the tip of the snout to the back of the hip. Assuming that the tale was as long as the sum of the length of all the other axial parts of the body I get a length of 15M for the holotype. Scaling it to have a snout length of<br>around 99CM we get a titanic length of nearly 20M for the Dal Sasso specime    n. So I think that a length of under 16M is<br>definitely out of the question for the Dal Sasso specimen.</p>
