---
post: mass-estimates-north-vs-south-redux772013
author: "Ali Afroz"
date: 2013-07-30T14:17:21Z
approved: true
source: disqus
---
<p>Hello M                R Heartman,<br>your post is wonderful, but I do have some questions regarding it. Question number1:<br>why is your giganotosaurus so  light? While<br>no volumetric analysis has tried to estimate the mass of gig, Bates et al<br>(2009) used laser scanning and 3D modelling to estimate acrocanthosaurus at<br>between 5750 and 7250 KG. Given this I’d expect gig to be a lot havier with the<br>holotype approaching 8 tons. Question number2: (this one’s about spinosaurus)<br>what length did you use for the mandibal fragment of the holotype, Stromer says<br>that it was 75 CM long. However since he italicised it the first time he mentioned<br>it in his paper people read the 7 as a 9. I read on an archived Wikipedia thread<br>that you gave a snout length of 95 CM based on this. Since you later made the mandibal<br>fragment shorter by about 6 percent it should be in the 89-90 CM range which is<br>further corroborated by your length estimate of 15.6M for the Dal Sasso specimen.<br>Correcting this error I get a length estimate of around 18.5M for the Dal Sasso<br>specimen. Also I have read that you gave your spino only 14 dorsels and only 9<br>servicals, but the theropod database says that suchomimus had 16 dorsals and 10<br>servicals. Here is my estimate for the holotype: assuming that the length of the<br>first sacrul is equal to the average length of the sacruls and the length of<br>all the vertebra not preserved by beryenyx is equal to the averaged length of<br>those vertebra directly anterior and posterior to it (definitely a departure<br>from reality but the difference is minimal), that Cau’s clame that the 10th<br>dorsal sentrum length of the holotype is 50 percent longer then that of<br>beryenyx (he rounds a lot so for all I know it could be over 60 percent), that<br>sentrum length is directly proportional to vertebral length and  giving it a 1.25M scull I get a length of 7.5M<br>from the tip of the snout to the back of the hip. Assuming that the tale was as<br>long as the sum of the length of all the other axial parts of the body I get a<br>length of 15M for the holotype. Scaling it to have a snout length of around<br>99CM we get a titanic length of nearly 20M for the Dal Sasso specime                n. So I think that a length of<br>under 16M is definitely out of the question for the Dal Sasso specimen.</p>
