---
post: reign-of-dinosaur-revolution
author: "Tomozaurus"
date: 2011-09-09T05:03:53Z
approved: true
source: disqus
---
<p>This was my review of the first episode, copypastad from my forum.<br><br>"It was okay. The CGI was unimpressive, and the animation was super inconsistent as we already discussed. The Saurosuchus particular was animated horribly and looked like a child moving a plastic toy.<br><br>The models were solid overall in appearance. The Glacialisaurus was the standout accuracy wise, though all were decent. I won't go into certain muscular and integument deficiencies again <br>The colors on all the animals were gorgeous, very unique and interesting. Though the male Eoraptor prompted a confused "why is it blue?" from my housemate.<br><br>In terms of story, character, actions etc. The anthropomorphism wasn't quite as bad as I was expecting. Still, it didn't feel like I was watching real animals, nor did it feel like I was watching a documentary. It felt like a more accurate "The Land Before Time" for adults. When the anthropomorphism and mammal-centralism hit they hit hard. The Eoraptor nuzzling, and the whole Cryolophosaurus fight were blatant examples.<br>I liked the Permian opening. The Eoraptor story was decent overall. The Glacialisaurus part of the second main story was of good quality and probably the part I enjoyed the most in the episode. The Gigantoraptor part was a little bit over the top and I can see a partial observer finding it stupid, was also one of the more TLBT-ish moments. The less said about the mosasaur and Cryolophosaurus parts the better. I feel like they could have easily left out the mosasaur part and extended the existing Triassic stories or added another in.<br><br>The talking head parts weren't bad. The narration was pointless, dramatic and in places moronic, but that is of no fault of the show's creators.<br><br>The worst part of all though: I was completely puzzled as to where they pulled all this "non-avian dinosaurs were good parents" stuff from. I don't remember if any of the talking heads said it specifically or it was just in the narration, but this was seriously out of the blue. I was quite confused when it was first mentioned and was just like "what? no they didn't..." and then they just kept drumming it in. Did they just decide to pull a random idea from nowhere to drum in?"<br><br>My review of the second episode was a bit more positive.</p>
