---
post: reign-of-dinosaur-revolution
author: "Tomozaurus"
date: 2011-09-09T05:07:47Z
approved: true
source: disqus
---
<p>Oh, nice to see you on the show as well Scott.<br><br>My review of the second episode (btw, sorry for the length of the posts):<br><br>"The CGI was a lot better than Evolution’s Winners I actually wasn’t expecting that even though everybody said it was.<br>The actual show itself was much better as well. I think having only one story per episode works better than jumping around, too bad I don’t think this is the format of the remaining two episodes. The anthropomorphism actually wasn’t as bad as I expected it to be, and certainly not as Evolution’s Winners. Even the “Looney Toons” parts weren’t all that bad with the exception of the Torvosaurus intro scene. That and a couple of the exchanges between the “Bulldog” Allosaurus and Dinheirosaurus were the main issues in that respect.<br>There were other behavior issues though, they still seem pretty rampant on the whole parental care thing, even on sauropods which have been pretty much proven the opposite. The whole way the Torvosaurus acted was ridiculous. The ideas that it would destroy an entire herd of Miragaia without eating them and bum rush a cluster of herbivores were just asinine. They could have played much closer homage to the Battle at Krueger that they did with that scene.<br>Aside from that, and back to the positives, the whole was the animals moved and acted (mostly) was a vast improvement this time around. There were lots of times where they seemed quite animalistic and they didn’t have the humanoid expressions of the first episode (outside of that Torvosaurus intro scene with Tweety and Sylvester). I also liked Bulldog’s threat display, which was quite plausible and looked pretty neat.<br>Any other complaints would just be repeats from my review of the first episode (narration, etc.).<br><br>In the end, it was actually very enjoyable and felt a lot less like a remake of The Land Before Time. I do feel like this was the episode that the most time and effort was put into and will probably end up being the peak of the series."</p>
