---
post: skeletal-poses-do-they-matter
author: "Anonymous"
date: 2011-07-27T20:41:20Z
approved: true
source: disqus
---
<p>Why not just forget showing artists anything at all? The hand standing allosaur is a hoot. The silesaur pose not being habitual means nothing, actually. If the animal could have done it, why not show it that way? I know, I know, art is less important to some people than perceived accuracy. I know this is a news flash to a lot of people, but many of us artists need to sell our work to make money.<br><br>That means, make the picture interesting. That does not mean make it badly or make it inaccurate, but make it interesting. What is the normal pose for a cat, big, little, in between, whatever? Sleeping! They do it a lot. Sleeping cats can look cute, so the problem does not arise with them. <br><br>What about horses? Seen a lot of photos of horses. Seen them in books, seen them on the net, and so on. Seen pics of them galloping, jumping, racing around barrels, walking, cantering, trotting, etc.. Pics of them rearing are plentiful. Pics of them doing what they do normally, as defined by how great a percentage of their time they do it, are comparatively rare. <br><br>I've been around horses a fair deal, used to live on a farm with one. I've studied them with an artist's eye. What is the normal position for a horse? Standing still, one foot ahead of the other, its tail flicking flies away from its butt, with its head down, stuffing its face with grass. You glance at a horse ten times at random, and nine out of ten times, it will be eating. <br>Not exceedingly interesting, which is why most pics show them doing something else. <br><br>"Normal" poses are part of what I paint. Action poses also figure in. I do not reject either one, though some style police want me to do that. <br><br>The exploded diagram is a cool idea. I'll never look at it more than once, unless I'm painting a corpse, and I certainly will not be interested in it otherwise, but it is a cool idea. If I receive a commission to paint or draw a skeletal, I'll use other means to get my information, and those means will not include anyone's drawn skeletals, your, Paul's, anyone's art at all. I use skeletals for basic information. Very useful, yes, and many times quite beautiful, when the boney architecture is shown well.  <br><br>A standard pose for skeletals is a good idea, but old GSP wants to make an issue out of it for artists like you, who use something very similar to his left-leg-thrusting-out-to-sea-and-who-knows-where-else pose. Frankly, I like your work better, but that's my taste. And, frankly, if I drew skeletals, which I am lousy at, I'd avoid GSP's standard pose like the plague. Why on earth would I want someone to think he might have drawn my skeletal? <br><br>What pose to choose? Walking or standing still, with the near leg transparentized so detail on the pelvis can be seen, without shorting information on the leg.  An artist like me can interpret the positions we want from that. That's my thoughts, anyway.</p>
