---
post: the-biggest-of-big
author: "Vahe Demirjian"
date: 2018-10-27T22:00:05Z
approved: true
source: disqus
---
<p>Hi,</p><p>Amphicoelias fragillimus has been assigned to Rebbachisauridae based on comparisons with rebbachisaurid taxa and renamed Maraapunisaurus by Carpenter (2018), who revised the size estimate of fragillimus to 99-104 feet (30-32 meters). This new size estimate makes sense because Woodruff and Fowler (2015) consider the idea of a mega-sauropod weighing over 122,400 kg a biological impossibility, and known mega-sauropods are about 110-120 feet long (Diplodocus hallorum [aka Seismosaurus] was long thought to have been 150-170 feet long, but that size estimate was later reduced to 110 feet). Even with these new size estimate, Maraapunisaurus is still a monster sauropod compared to other rebbachisaurids.</p><p>As for Diplodocus, Tschopp et al. (2015) restrict Diplodocus longus to the holotype due to limited diagnostic value of the species within Diplodocus, and refer the Dinosaur National Monument specimens of Diplodocus to D. hallorum, in which case the diagram should label NMMNH P-3690 as Diplodocus hallorum.</p><p>Carpenter, Kenneth (2018). "Maraapunisaurus fragillimus, N.G. (formerly Amphicoelias fragillimus), a basal Rebbachisaurid from the Morrison Formation (Upper Jurassic) of Colorado". Geology of the Intermountain West. 5: 227–244.</p><p>Tschopp, E.; Mateus, O. V.; Benson, R. B. J. (2015). "A specimen-level phylogenetic analysis and taxonomic revision of Diplodocidae (Dinosauria, Sauropoda)". PeerJ. 3: e857. doi:10.7717/peerj.857. PMC 4393826. PMID 25870766.</p><p>Woodruff, C; Foster, JR (2015). "The fragile legacy of Amphicoelias fragillimus (Dinosauria: Sauropoda; Morrison Formation - Latest Jurassic)". PeerJ PrePrints. doi:10.7287/peerj.preprints.838v1.</p>
