---
post: the-biggest-of-big
author: "Zach Armstrong"
date: 2013-06-16T01:33:08Z
approved: true
source: disqus
---
<p>Nice job, Scott! Glad to see some independent confirmation that <em>Futalognkosaurus</em> was smaller than it was initially reported as, as I've suspected for a while.<br><br>A couple of nitpicks with #4 though with <em>Argentionsaurus</em> being smaller. The vertebrae of <em>Argentinosaurus</em> (when complete) would have been maybe 25-35 cm taller than in <em>Puertasaurus</em>, and the functional length of the dorsals of <em>Argentinosaurus</em> are all longer by at least 10 cm than the dorsal known from <em>Puertasaurus</em>. As for width, I believe all of the dorsals of <em>Argentinosaurus</em> have had their positions reinterpreted to more posterior positions, so there are no anterior ones known (see Salgado &amp; Powell (2010)). In some titanosaurs, like <em>Alamosaurus</em> and <em>Opisthocoelicaudia</em>, the anterior dorsals can be dramatically wider than the mid- to posterior ones, so interpolating from that, the anterior dorsals of <em>Argentinosaurus</em> could be as wide as <em>Puertasaurus</em>, meaning that (at least in the torso) <em>Argentinosaurus</em> is slightly larger overall.<br><br>Also, several phylogenetic analyses have indicated that <em>Argentinosaurus</em> isn't quite as basal as once thought (see, for instance, Curry Rogers 2005 phylogenetic analysis that placed it as a saltasaur closer to <em>Isisaurus</em> and <em>Antarctosaurus</em>). I'm not sure that basal titanosaurs necessarily have a shorter tail, either. For instance, <em>Rapetosaurus</em> has one of the shortest tails I've seen on a titanosaur, and it is fairly derived. Also, <em>Phuwiangosaurus</em>, has a fairly long tail, and yet is placed as a basal titanosaur or somphospondylian (D'Emic has placed it as a euhelopid). Of course, this is all speculation since we don't have neck or tail verts for <em>Argentinosaurus</em>, but I wouldn't discount if from being larger than <em>Puertasaurus</em>.<br><br>Regarding #3: I did a multi-view skeletal of <em>Alamosaurus</em>, and although it came out different from yours in some details (like the leg proportions), I did a GDI and got a conservative 18.8 tonnes for a 17 meter individual. So your 23 meter <em>Alamosaurus</em> would be about 47 tonnes by my estimate.  I estimated the individual based off of that large incomplete tibia at a shade under 27 meters, which would make it close to 75 tonnes (assuming similar proportions of course). So I think your estimate of 60-70 tonnes for a 27 m <em>Puertasaurus</em> is quite good, although maybe on the low end.<br><br>I wish I had some multi-view skeletals of diplodocids, other than Greg Paul's, do do GDI's off. I'd do my own, but I've had a hard time finding quality papers (other than Google book scans which mess up the plates badly) describing diplodocids in detail, with the appropriate figures.</p>
