---
post: theres-something-fishy-about-spinosaurus9112014
author: "Shelley Laven"
date: 2018-01-12T04:44:39Z
approved: true
source: disqus
---
<p>Hi Scott. After looking at the size of the head, sail, arms, legs, and tail, I've finally come to the conclusion that the center of gravity is in front of the hip, meaning that spinosaurus would be more comfortable walking on four legs. The reason why I think this is because you have the combined weight of the head, neck, arms, and sail on one end of the body, while on the other side you have a skinny tail that isn't much longer then that of body that is also being supported on quite small legs even with the larger legs on. Also not helping is the fact that spinosaurus is 60 ft longe in parts of tunisia and morrocco and weighed 10 tons. I literally got a tape measure out, put against the screen, and measured spinosaurus tail and body size. What I found is that its tail is only .2-.3 inches longer then the body. Then I measured t rex body and tail size and found that the tail is a inch longer then that if the body. Not only that, but t rex  also had a much larger, stronger leg to body ratio and a much longer, thicker tail to body ratio meaning that t rex, in proportion to spinosaurus, has longer, thicker, heavier tail. So weighing 10 tons and having quite small legs and tail and having  decently sized skull, arms, and  sail, I have come to the conclusion that the center of gravity can not be on top of the hips as it needs to be for bipedal walkers. Example, if t rex tail was a lot skinnier, then that would affect his center of gravity and he will have a lot harder of a time staying balance, especially if he was running. And I think we can all agree that spinosaurus front end is heavier then that of t rex. So spinosaurus center of gravity can't be on his hips, and if it's not on his hips, then that means bipedal wasn't his normal every day stance. Btw, his knuckles breaking wouldn't be a valid argument unless you have thoroughly studied spinosaurus knuckles and arm movement which I highly doubt considering how rare spinosaurus bones are. Besides, saying spinosaurus can't walk on his knuckles because other theropod dinosaurs can't is like saying gorillas can't walk on their knuckles because humans can't. Anyway, I think spinosaurus mostly walked on four legs because his center of gravity in-between the middle of his stomach and his hip, though can stand, walk, and even fight on two legs considering the every so often fight with  carchadontosaurus. So while I do agree with you on the legs Scott, I don't really agree with him walking completely on two</p>
