---
post: there-may-be-more-fishiness-in-spinosaurus9132014
author: "duane nash"
date: 2014-09-18T06:44:41Z
approved: true
parent: there-may-be-more-fishiness-in-spinosaurus9132014--1591534265
source: disqus
---
<p>"the problem with common sense is it can be misleading" yes sometimes, but how have you shown I am misled? I still am not convinced it could walk bipedally (very well) and there are really problems with knuckle walking. By folding the front arms in, lowering the torso and pushing off with the back legs all these problems are solved. This is merely a co-option of <a href="http://www.plosone.org/article/info%3Adoi%2F10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0004591" rel="nofollow ugc noopener" target="_blank">known resting theropod anatomy</a>: Milner ARC, Harris JD, Lockley MG, Kirkland JI, Matthews NA (2009) Bird-Like Anatomy, Posture, and Behavior Revealed by an Early Jurassic Theropod Dinosaur Resting Trace. PLoS ONE 4(3): e4591. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0004591<br>Several extant theropods - loons, penguins - use this very method of locomotion. And they happen to be primarily aquatic as well. Simple? Yes. Common sense? Yes. Wrong, not necessarily. You or no one else I have contacted (and if you read my comments there are several) has shown me why it is wrong.</p><p>The bipedal/quadrupedal dichotomy is dominating the conversation. Belly sliding is a third option.</p><p>Tidal mud is a very different beast than the type of mud you might encounter in a lake or high gradient stream/river. Large crocs can use a variety of walking techniques but I am yet to see an instance of a large crocodile moving across tidal  mud in a high walk or any stance <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x9GjV7Ensb8&amp;index=1&amp;list=PLiNaoQeZkCAWoYtLiYF0IaYbVfR2mjqkS." rel="nofollow ugc noopener" target="_blank">but a belly slide </a></p><p>For me the fact that a crocodile can utilize a variety of stances but always seems to go to belly sliding speaks to the benefits of spreading your weight out on a difficult substrate to gain traction.</p><p>Belly sliding used by both the croc and bird archosaur line archosaurs - phylogenetic bracketing. Solves problem of COG and knuckle walking. Simple co-option of known theropod resting anatomy - no drastic anatomical makeovers needed (ventral surface absorbs most of the weight arms are minimally involved). Provides solution to dealing with difficult/muddy terrains with known analogues in crocodiles/pinnipeds/penguins/loons.</p><p>I would say it is simple and parsimonious.</p><p>Duane Nash antediluvian salad</p>
