---
post: theres-something-fishy-about-spinosaurus9112014
author: "Henry Richards"
date: 2014-09-14T10:36:24Z
approved: true
parent: theres-something-fishy-about-spinosaurus9112014--1587653037
source: disqus
---
<p>The new neotype has skull pieces, a finger piece, vertebrae, ribs a pelvis and hindlimbs. The real answer concerns the synonomy of Spinosaurus aegyptiacus, Spinosaurus B, as well as Spinosaurus C (what Andrea Cau calls the neotype on her site). The neotype allows some of the fossils in Stromers  (1934) paper (published years after his original description) to be referred positively to Spinosaurus aegyptiacus. These apparently include a tibia and a mid dorsal that are figured for Spinosaurus B. The ratio of mid dorsal (centrum?) length to tibia length in Spinosaurus B is 23% and is 25% for the Neotype. So there was a second set of vertebra and leg remains but it was considered a chimera because a ratio of 25 percent was previously unheard of in theropods, and because all but the base of the neural spine was broken off of the Spinosaurus B vertebra, hiding its true affinity to Spinosaurus aegyptiacus. Detailed comparison of the new specimens with Stromers paper should yeild up new previously unrecognized Spinosaurus bones that were referred to something else entirely. In fact, Ibrahim et al. (2014) have probably already done this in a synonymy or a referral of specimens section in their paper. You may find Stromers monograph far more useful than you imagined!</p><p>This also appears to be the train of thought that Ibrahim et al. (2014) have taken in their reconstruction. Even with Scott Hartmans correction, much of their work appears sound. I am only troubled by the proportions of the tail, and the position and relative size of the pectoral girdle and forelimbs. If dorsals have become cervicalized in a dinosaur, the pectoral girdle usually moves backwards with the new transition point. Just look at birds! This will shorten the trunk and lengthen the neck, further reducing the center of gravity problems. The greatly upturned neck would help keep the head above water and like on a bird would keep the head closer to the center of gravity. If the back of the dorsal column was directed upwards at the sacrum and arched like a therizinosaurs, it may have also lessened center of gravity problems that Spinosaurus might have had.</p><p>Jeez, I hope I'm not let down when I read the paper. What a case of paleontological sleuthing! Ive heard so much about whats in this paper I cant wait to get it, and of course the all important supplement.</p><p>A figure in the supplemental material by Ibrahim et al. (2014) shows the parts of the neotype and the corresponding parts of Stromers (1934) Spinosaurus B<br></p>
