---
post: theres-something-fishy-about-spinosaurus9112014
author: "duane nash"
date: 2014-09-12T20:02:50Z
approved: true
source: disqus
---
<p>I agree with Cau and others that ontogeny likely changed the hind limb ratio quite a bit during the growth phase of this species which parallels what we see in many other theropods. The reconstruction is a composite of several specimens and perhaps this fact should have been more concisely stated by the authors. That being said I can well imagine that less mature spinosaurs may have more resembled other species (Suchomimus, Baronyx) in stance/movement but became more closer to the skeletal approximation the authors made with advancing age and size. As for the bipedal/quadrupedal debate I think we need to break that impasse by observing that the vast majority of large/amphibious tetrapods will adopt a belly slide locomotion on muddy/unstable surfaces (crocs, seals, penguins, otters, loons). As noted by several people there are no obvious weight bearing adaptations in the manus of these creatures for knuckle walking. Likewise there are some obvious problems with navigating muddy tidal flats (check out the stratigraphy section in additional material among other lines of evidence) as a multi-ton obligate biped. That is why a belly sliding/combat crawl type of locomotion is a fair compromise between the known anatomical constraints and habitat of these animals. Additionally the ulna (colored yellow from isolated specimens) appears rather robust and flattened at either end for possible weight bearing load - although the ventral surface of the animal would have taken most of the weight. Simply fold the forelimbs in, lower the belly down, and push off with the hind limbs. This scenario takes care of all the problems people have noted with regards to habitat, center of gravity, and anatomy. I am not suggesting bipedal locomotion could not have been used as well, perhaps a bit like a pangolin as Darren Naish suggested, but again there are some obvious problems with falling face down especially for large multi-ton animals. When bipedally walking they perhaps touched down occasionally with the forearms for stability. By getting down on its belly Spinosaurus would avoid the potential problems of falling face forward preemptively. More at my blog antediluvian salad:  <a href="http://antediluviansalad.blogspot.com/2014/08/did-bakker-get-spinosaurus-right-after.html" rel="nofollow ugc noopener" target="_blank">Did Bakker Get Spinosaurus Right After All</a></p>
