---
post: theres-something-fishy-about-spinosaurus9112014
author: "Henry Richards"
date: 2014-09-16T04:43:38Z
approved: true
parent: theres-something-fishy-about-spinosaurus9112014--1586489869
source: disqus
---
<p>I think that it is because the same vertebra was dittoed over and over in the reconstruction of Ibrahim et al. (2014). Dale Russell (1996) provides a lot of good data on the Spinosaurus neck. Of particular use are his illustrations of articulated neck vertebrae. His Spinosaurus morrocainus cervicals (3) can be sorted into position based on the development of their epipophyses. The cervical with the greatest development of the epipophyses is vert.3 in the series. The vertebra missing much of the anterior ball of the centrum is vert.4 and has intermediate epipophyses. Vert.5 is the other elongate cervical vertebra which has reduced epipophyses. Vert.5 and vert.3 are shown in Russells (1996) figure that is a string of four vertebrae that includes both of Stromers original cervicals from the destroyed type specimen. Stromers cervicals represent a partial axis and either vert.6 or vert.7. It should be noted that all of Russells (1996) Morroccan finds are isolated bones from individuals of differing sizes.</p><p>Russell (1996) also describes a string of 8 cervicals of Sigilmassasaurus in his paper. Only half of these represent the true Spinosaurus column. The first two in the series are duplicates of vert. 9 but of different size and ontogenetic age (according to the table measurements given for the specimens), the second one being the smaller individual. Likewise, the second two vertebrae are duplicates of vert.10. The third in the sequence is the younger and smaller, and the fourth much larger with all of the characters of the third but more pronounced and better developed. The 5th in the series is interpolated, pure speculation. The sixth in the series is vert. 11 (presumably the first dorsal). Russells articulated series is more schematic than the larger scale drawings of the individual vertebrae. The larger drawing suggests that this vertebra is not well preserved with some parts reconstructed. Vert.11 may be a cervical, but I think it is a dorsal because of the positions of the parapophyses and diapophyses. The seventh in the series is interpolated, speculative. If enlarged, the eighth in the series articulates well with thesixth in the series and becomes vert.12 or the presumed second dorsal.</p><p>In my preliminary tracings so far, I have come up with a reasonable neck that resembles the necks of more complete large basal tetanurans like Allosaurus, Piatnitzkysaurus, and other genera of Spinosaurids. I do not think it will come out to be as long proportionately as in  Ibrahim et al.s (2014) reconstruction.</p>
